# Equipment

It’s a dangerous galaxy, and a smart explorer knows that the difference between success and failure—or even life and death— 
may be the equipment you have at the ready. This section presents all sorts of different equipment, from weapons and armor to 
adventuring gear for scouting new worlds. Yet not everything in this chapter is a purely technological wonder, and many of 
the items included here are the products of spellcasting artisans or are a blending of magic and advanced science.

## Minimum proficiency

Most Star5er equipment that needs proficiency (including all weapons and armor) has a “minimum proficiency” requirement that 
can go from +2 to +6. If you use an item and your proficiency modifier is below the item minimum requirement, you are not 
considered proficient with the item. 

The minimum proficiency of the item may also be used to calculate effect DCs on some special effects caused.

## Currency

Many worlds still retain coins or other forms of physical money from the time before the Pact, and they may occasionally use 
them for local trade. However, the standard unit of currency in the Pact Worlds (and the Star5er RPG rules) is the credit. 
All interplanetary business is conducted in standardized credits, thanks to their backing and regulation through the Pact 
Worlds government and the church of Abadar. Converting a world’s economy to the credit standard is a requirement of joining 
the Pact Worlds, and even worlds far outside the Pact’s official jurisdiction often prefer to use them, since they are so 
universally carried and understood.

Credits are a combination of digital and physical currency. Most individuals and corporations store their funds digitally in 
accounts with major banking houses, protected by the strongest spells and encryption money can buy. Yet the price of such 
security is high: accessing these funds requires jumping through significant hoops, and official transactions between 
accounts must be transparent to government and banking officials, making true privacy impossible.

### Credsticks

Fortunately, the widespread use of the credstick circumvents issues related to spending and storing currency. Flat and 
roughly the size of a human finger, ranging from cheap and disposable to elaborate works of art, credsticks are a convenient 
way to carry and spend money. When an individual wants to load money onto a credstick, she visits an automated bank kiosk and 
goes through the security procedures required to place a set amount of currency on the unit. The specifics of these 
procedures are up to the GM, but they might include retinal scans, fingerprinting, gene reading, or some form of magical 
identification.

Once loaded onto the credstick, the funds become completely anonymous, and the owner can dole out any amount to other 
credsticks wirelessly—sometimes, it’s easiest for owners to simply hand over the credstick itself and acquire a new one 
later. In addition to allowing individuals to make purchases anonymously, credsticks also provide users with peace of mind—
they help keep identity theft rare and difficult, and the pickpocket who nabs your credstick gains access only to whatever 
funds were left on it, not your entire net worth.

Individuals in the Pact Worlds sometimes receive money via direct account transfers, particularly if they’re being employed 
by reputable organizations, but most everyday purchases are made with credsticks, and nearly all black-market or confidential 
transactions use them. While credsticks can theoretically hold any amount, most people opt to carry smaller denominations—
sticks holding only a few tens or hundreds of credits— so as not to tempt fate. As such, criminal deals often involve sacks 
full of credsticks with small denominations, to raise less suspicion. Only those looking to flaunt their wealth use luxury 
credsticks like the infamous Abadar Black stick, known throughout the Pact Worlds for its built-in secure link to an 
unlimited line of credit.

In most technologically advanced urban areas, no one bothers to track fractions of credits, and few things cost a fraction of 
a credit. Mass production makes it cheaper to sell entire suits of clothing, prebundled into 1-credit packages, than to sell 
individual items worth less than a credit each. However, some credsticks are designed to allow fractional credit purchases.

As a GM, assume that most individuals in civilized areas carry only enough credstick funds on them to make it through a week 
or two of expenses, and that even those who store all their funds physically keep most of it hidden somewhere safe. While 
credsticks make it physically possible for a character to carry a near limitless amount of money on them, you don’t want your 
PCs to retire just because they found a vanquished enemy’s life savings in his pocket!

## Selling equipment

In general, you can sell equipment of any type anywhere you could buy the same equipment. Since any equipment sold by PCs comes without the guarantees and reputation of major merchants and producers (and may be broken, cursed, defective, or stolen), in general PCs can sell equipment for only 10% of its purchase price. A GM may change this based on the spare credits of a community, market conditions, or the factors an adventure dictates. Trade goods are the exception to this, since they are considered more universal, more easily checked for defects, and less traceable (and thus less likely to cause issues if they are of a questionable provenance). Trade goods can generally be sold for 100% of their purchase price, and in some cases can be used as money themselves (subject to the GM’s discretion).

## Bulk and carrying

You can carry an amount of bulk up to half your Strength score without difficulty. If you carry more than that, you increase 
your level of exhaustion by one (maximum 5), until the amount of bulk you carry becomes less than or equal to half your 
Strength score. You can’t voluntarily wear or hold an amount of bulk that is greater than your Strength score. If you are 
forced to do so (due to changing gravity, for example), you also are considered restrained until the bulk you carry becomes 
less than or equal to your Strength score.

### Item Bulk

Each item in these rules has a representation of its bulk, which is a number, the letter “L” if it has light bulk, or a dash 
(“—”) if it has negligible bulk. For example, a gyrojet rifle has 2 bulk, a tactical knife has light bulk, and a ring of 
sustenance has negligible bulk.

Every 10 items that have light bulk count as 1 bulk, and fractions don’t count—so 10 items with light bulk have a total of 1 
bulk, and 19 such items also have a total of 1 bulk. Items that have negligible bulk count toward your bulk limit only if the 
GM determines that you are carrying an unreasonable number of them.

Add together the numerical bulk values of all items you are wearing and carrying to determine the total amount of bulk you 
are carrying.

### Estimating bulk

As a general rule, an item that weighs around 5 to 10 pounds is 1 bulk (and every multiple of 10 is an additional bulk), an 
item weighing a few ounces is negligible, and anything in between is light. An awkward or unwieldy item might have a higher 
bulk.

