# Powered Armor

Powered armor is its own category of armor (it’s not light, medium or heavy). 

Unlike light and heavy armor, powered armor requires its own battery, and comes with a fully charged battery at purchase. 
Powered armor uses the same type of batteries as other items, including charged weapons, and the battery for a suit of 
powered armor can be recharged as normal using a generator or recharging station, or it can be replaced with a new battery 
when spent.

Powered armor augments the wearer’s Strength and has weapon mounts on which ranged weapons can be installed. Powered armors 
of Large or greater size use their own arms and hands, rather than allowing the user to manipulate objects or weapons with 
their own hands. Operating such a suit of powered armor requires all your hands to be free (within the armor’s cockpit) and 
allows you use of all the armor’s hands. Large and bigger suits of powered armor have two arms and hands unless specified 
otherwise.

Powered armors of Medium or smaller size allow the operator to use its own limbs (however many that is), and do not require 
any hands to be free in order to operate the functions of the powered armor.

## Entering and exiting Powered armor

You can only enter or exit powered armor at the beginning of your turn. While doing so you are considered paralyzed (except 
that you can speak) until the beginning of your next turn. You must be adjacent to the armor to enter, and you exit to any 
adjacent space to the armor (your choice).

Unless noted otherwise, a suit of powered armor has an electronic lock preventing anyone from opening it without knowing the 
passcode. The passcode can be determined with a successful Computers check (DC = 13 + 2 × the armor minimum proficiency).

You can not enter the cockpit of a powered armor if you are already wearing medium or heavy armor.

## Powered Armor Proficiency

Characters can gain proficiency with powered armor by taking the Powered Armor Proficiency feat or at 7th level through the 
soldier’s guard archetype. Lacking proficiency in powered armor comes with more significant drawbacks than with other types 
of armor. If you are wearing powered armor with which you are not proficient, the normal penalties apply but also all attacks 
against you have advantage, and you move at half speed. If the armor has a special form of movement (such as a fly speed), 
you cannot use that movement without proficiency. 

## Powered Armor descriptions

**AC Bonus:** you can get this AC bonus or the bonus of other light armor you are wearing

**Stealth:** Some powered armor gives you a disadvantage at stealth

**Speed:** Rather than using your normal speed, the powered armor has a maximum land speed of its own. In some cases, powered 
armor has additional movement types as well. 

**Strength:** When wearing powered armor, the armor determines your effective Strength. You use it for all Strength-based 
rolls. Even if your Strength is higher, you’re limited to the armor’s Strength.

**Damage:** When you make an unarmed melee attack with the powered armor, it deals damage equal to the armor’s listed damage 
value plus its Strength modifier. 

**Size:** A suit of powered armor has the listed size, so you may take up more space when you’re wearing it. Some suits of 
powered armor list a reach in parentheses after size. Powered armor with a reach greater than 5 feet allows you to attack 
creatures within that range in melee even if they aren’t adjacent to you. Add the reach of the powered armor to the reach of 
any weapons you wield using the powered armor. 

**Capacity and Usage:** Powered armor requires a great deal of electricity to function, and it has a battery capacity and 
usage value. A suit of powered armor’s battery capacity indicates the number of charges its battery holds. This battery can 
be recharged as normal using a generator or a recharging station, or it can be replaced with a new battery. You can put a 
battery with a smaller charge capacity into powered armor, but you can’t recharge one to hold more than its maximum number of 
charges. Powered armor’s usage indicates how long a single battery charge runs the armor. Once you have entered a suit of 
powered armor, you can tell how many battery charges it has remaining, if any. You can turn a suit of powered armor on or off 
as a standard action, and you do not need to use all charges for a suit of powered armor consecutively, but you must use them 
in 1-charge increments.

If you’re in armor that’s out of power, you don’t benefit from the armor’s Strength or damage, and you can’t attack with it 
or cause it to move. None of its mounted weapons or upgrades function, even if they have their own power sources. You can’t 
attempt any Strength- or Dexterity-based skill checks, and you don’t add your Dexterity modifier to the AC. You can still 
exit the armor. 

**Weapon Slots:** This is the number of ranged weapon mounts the armor has. Each slot can have any one or two-handed weapon. 
You do not need your hands to operate these weapons, but reloading requires a free hand. It is an action to mount/unmount a 
weapon while the armor is unpowered. If the armor is powered weapons can not be mounted, and can not be removed (even by 
enemies) except by severely damaging the armor.

**Upgrade Slots:** You can improve your powered armor with the same technological and magical upgrades available for armors. 
This entry shows how many total upgrades your powered armor can accommodate. Some larger or more complicated upgrades take up 
multiple upgrade slots.

**Bulk:** A powered armor’s listed bulk refers to its bulk when it is picked up or carried as cargo, and it does not count 
toward your own normal carrying capacity while worn. When you’re wearing powered armor, you use that armor’s Strength to 
determine your carrying capacity. Count everything you’re wearing, everything the powered armor is holding, and any armor 
upgrades and weapons mounted to the powered armor against this bulk limit.

### Cargo Lifter

**Minimum Proficiency** +2; **Price** 2,150

**AC Bonus:** 16 **Stealth** Disadvantage; **Speed** 15 feet

**Strength** 20 (+5); **Damage** 1d10 B; **Size** Large (5-foot reach)

**Capacity** 40; **Usage** 1/minute

**Weapon Slots** 0; **Upgrade Slots** 0; **Bulk** 34

A cargo lifter consists of a simple metal frame atop slow-moving legs or treads. Rather than having articulated hands, its 
arms end in specialized gripping tools meant to lift bulky containers. A cargo lifter can’t use weapons and makes attack 
rolls at disadvantage. It can carry 10 bulk more than normal for its Strength score without becoming encumbered or 
overburdened.

### Battle Harness

**Minimum Proficiency** +3; **Price** 3,450

**AC Bonus:** 15 + Dex (max 2) **Stealth** Disadvantage; **Speed** 30 feet

**Strength** 18 (+4); **Damage** 1d10 B; **Size** Medium

**Capacity** 20; **Usage** 1/hour

**Weapon Slots** 1; **Upgrade Slots** 1; **Bulk** 20

The battle harness is the basic powered armor frame used by infantry units in professional militaries.

### Spider harness

**Minimum Proficiency** +4; **Price** 19,500

**AC Bonus:** 13 + Dex **Stealth** Disadvantage; **Speed** 25 feet, climb 25 feet

**Strength** 18 (+4); **Damage** 1d10 P; **Size** Large (10-foot reach)

**Capacity** 40; **Usage** 1/minute

**Weapon Slots** 1; **Upgrade Slots** 2; **Bulk** 28

This suspension harness has six arachnid legs. Each leg has a gravitic attraction device at the tip, allowing the armor to climb up walls and even walk across ceilings. The armor grants the wearer a climb speed of 25 feet. A spider harness also has powered arm braces that attach to the wearer’s arms, allowing the wearer to use weapons.

### Flight Frame

**Minimum Proficiency** +4; **Price** 27,100

**AC Bonus:** 15 + Dex (max 2) **Stealth** Disadvantage; **Speed** 30 feet, fly 30 feet

**Strength** 22 (+5); **Damage** 2d6 B; **Size** Huge (10-foot reach)

**Capacity** 100; **Usage** 1/minute

**Weapon Slots** 3; **Upgrade Slots** 4; **Bulk** 40

This massive, sleek machine is shaped like a person and equipped with powerful thrusters built into the feet and attached to the back, giving it a fly speed.
